Store farm chemicals securely where kids and animals can’t access them. Then make a list of the chemicals for firefighters in the event of a fire on your property.
Don’t wear loose clothing around equipment or work areas.
An organic farm won’t secrete chemicals into water sources, and its fertilizers don’t release toxic gases into the air. Since organically grown food is also most often purchased and eaten locally, it cuts down on transportation costs, fossil fuel usage, and harmful greenhouse gas emissions.
When growing organic corn, work aged animal manure or organic compost into the soil, then plot with plastic sheets for a few weeks to ensure the nutrients remain, making sure the temperature of the soil at planting time is above 12°C.
The most sage advice you can receive about how to increase crop yields is by scouting your fields on foot. This will give you a chance to assess soil conditions, notice any weeds cropping up, and check that your crops are growing healthily.
Water management is essential to crop survival and maximizing your corn’s yield potential. It’s important to ensure your crop is getting enough water, but also that they aren’t being over-watered.
Soil testing should be on your to do list right from the get-go, because your soil and its needs will directly influence the growth of your crops. Examining the phosphorus, potassium, and fertilization levels will give you insight into how to handle your crops. It will also let you know when proper soil conditions are forming, such as the optimal density and right amount of nutrients, so you are ready to start planting.
Weeds are not just the enemy of front lawns and golf courses, they can also compromise your farmland. Weeds are invasive, and siphon nutrients away from the crops you are trying to grow. Weeds always need to be dealt with as early and often as possible. Scouting your fields gives you the opportunity to see if any weeds are cropping up — and putting a stop to them before the problem can get out of hand.
Having quality seeds is the basis for increasing crop yields. Whether you are looking into increasing your corn yields, or maximizing your overall agricultural productivity, you need to consider the strength of your seeds.
Cultivating your soil with fertilizers is an important part of maintaining optimal soil conditions for crops on your farmland.
There are both useful and harmful organisms in the agricultural farm which affect the field. The growth of such organisms needs to be controlled to protect the soil and the crops.
Organic farming instigates domestic animals use to increase the sustainability of the farm.
After the cultivation of crops, the soil loses its nutrients and its quality depletes. Organic agriculture initiates the use of natural ways to increase the health of soil. It focuses on the use of bacteria that is present in animal waste which helps in making the soil nutrients more productive to enhance the soil.
